LigandParameterizationParallel 

Version
   1.0

Purpose
    This workflow parameterize small molecules in parallel. It takes a list of pdb files stored in a local directory 
    and creates corresponding sub-directories using the pdb file names. Parameterization of each small molecule will 
    be done on corresponding sub-directories using Antechamber, tleap by Amber and Gaussian09. The final output is a 
    new pdb file named LIGAND_NAME-new.pdb which can be used for any further experiments and for validations.

Parameters
    c   charge of the small molecules. All the small molecules have to have the same charges. Default is 0 which 
        means all the small molecules are neutral. 
    d   directory of the small molecule pdb files. IT MUST INCLUDE THE COMPLETE PATH
    p   pattern of the pdb files. Default is .*pdb$$ which means all the pdb files in the directory.When running
        this parameter using command line, usuer needs to put an escape character before all the irregular 
        characters. For example: instead of .*pdb$$, user should type .\*pdb\$\$ when entering on a command line.
    p2  pattern of the pdb file to be replaced by empty string in order to obtain only the ligand name. Default 
        is .pdb which means that LIGAND_NAME.pdb will turn into LIGAND_NAME
    n   the number of pdb that is going to parameterize in a single run. For example, if user has five small 
        molecules in a single directory that need to parameterize, n will be set to 5.
    np  number of processors allocated for each ligand Gaussian09, for example, 2
    m   memories in megabyte (MB) allocated for each ligand when running Gaussian09, for example, 1000

Input & Output   
    The input for this workflow is multiple pdb files in a single directory and outputs are multiple LIGAND_NAME.
    prepc (Amber parameters), LIGAND_NAME.frcmod (Amber check files) and LIGAND_NAME-new.pdb (new pdb files built
    with Amber parameters). Sample inputs and outputs are available and included as a part of the download. 
    They are in the input and output folders, respectively.

Operating System Requirement
    Linux

Caution
    There are limitations of this workflow; so far, parallelization is only done on a local machine. 
    Because gaussian09 quantum mechanic calculation requires one process for each small molecule, five small 
    molecules will use five processor. User can only parallelize numbers of small molecules equal to or less than 
    the number of computer processors. The parameter c that indicated charge applies to all small molecule. If 
    user has five ligands and two out of five are negative 1 charged and other three are neutral, user should run 
    them separately in two sub-directories. 
