MatlabStatistic - 1.0

Purpose
   During virtual screening (VS), small molecules are assigned a score e.g. during small molecule docking, the score is a predicted binding affinity of a small molecule to a receptor target, and those compounds predicted to bind more favorably receive a higher rank and are more likely to be experimentally assayed. Performing VS using an ensemble of protein conformations may benefit the discovery effort, but it is also computationally demanding and scales linearly with the number of conformations. To improve computational efficiency, statistical methods can be used to select the ensemble that does the best job of separating known the binders from the known non-binders in a small, experimentally characterized compound database. This workflow incorporates the experimental status of a compound, i.e. binder or non-binder, the docking score of the compound in each receptor ensemble member, and returns the ensemble best able to discriminate known binders from known non-binders. Two CSV input files are required for this actor/workflow because out of the four algorithm used to perform the statistical calculations, two required nonbonding events to be represented as 0 and the other two required them to be represented as 9999999. For more information about this actor/workflow, please refer back to “Progress towards automated Kepler scientific workflows for computer-aided drug discovery and molecular simulations” section 3.7.

Parameters
   Parameter name (Parameter shorthand for workflow if running on terminals)
   directory (d)   	    This is the directory where the input CSV file should be located and output files will be saved. The two CSV files should be in this user specific directory.  
   Number of Receptor (n)   User specifies the number of ensemble receptor structures. For example, if user wants the best two ensemble receptor structures out of the eight structures they used for virtual screening, they will specify 2 for this parameter. 
   high (high) 		    this is the name for the CSV file that contains 999999 to represent non-binding events.
   zero (zero) 		    this is the name for the CSV file that contains 0 to represent non-binding events.

NOTES: The CSV files can be created with the help of SCHRODINGER GLIDE docking program. The first column should be the ligand ID and second column will should be 1 or 0 for each ligand. 1 represent binders and 0 are for non-binders. The output log file will inform user which set of ensembles can best distinguish binders from non-binders. 

CAUTION: This workflow is very memory intensive. It may take up all the RAM memory a user has on their computer. MATLAB Parallelizing license is optional. If a user does not have the MATLAB Parallelizing license, the workflow is defaulted to run in serial. However, there will be a huge speed up if matlab can split the calculation and run them simultaneously.